Title: HOPE FOR HYPERLIGHT Breaking the Light Barrier (NO PIX)
Date:  2025-05-27
Source: HOPE FOR HYPERLIGHT Breaking the Light Barrier (NO PIX).pdf
HOPE FOR HYPERLIGHT: Breaking the Light Barrier
    medium.com/@spacetimecurvature9/hyperlight-f2aab0735ccf
Jason Sokaris                                                                                             February 3, 2020
For millions of years, the human race has been looking up at little specks of light in the heavens. Over millennia,
stories were created and passed from generation to generation on the explanation of these tiny points of light. But it
was merely a few short centuries ago, that we came to realize that these tiny pinpoints of light were stars.
Now, in only the last couple decades, collaborative scientific efforts have revealed that virtually all of these stars in
our night sky have worlds circling them.
Our Sun is just one of about 200 billion stars in our galaxy, and planets are more numerous than stars. Hundreds of
billions of Earth-sized worlds, not only exoplanets, but exomoons, orbit in the habitable zones of sun-like and dwarf
stars in our Milky Way galaxy alone. And, there are at least one hundred billion galaxies within the fraction of the
universe that we can observe.
Recently, in 2016, it was confirmed that an earth-like rocky world is indeed orbiting our closest exosolar star,
Proxima Centauri, just over 4 lightyears distant in the Alpha Centauri triple star system. Then, in 2017, seven
exoplanets were detected 40 light-years away orbiting Trappist-1.
One day, we may call these worlds home.
Transcending Rockets
We live in the era of rocket propulsion. Currently, our space propulsion technology is facilitated by and limited to
Newton’s third law, and a factor of 10,000 separates the earth’s distance from our moon, Pluto, and our nearest star.
With the lack of an obvious reaction medium in space, current space propulsion systems have emerged that carry
and expel their own propellants to produce motion through space.
Pushing rocketry to its maximal limits, a properly engineered rocket engine could convert all its propellant mass into
propulsive energy in the form of electromagnetic radiation; the highest possible change in velocity (Delta-V) that
could be achieved would theoretically use antimatter and photons, respectively constituting the theoretical ultimate
on-board fuel and mass expellant.
However, the stars are unthinkably far, and since propellant and fuel mass grow exponentially with Delta-V
capability, interstellar rockets become prohibitively massive, making them no more practical than space warps.
As a comparison, our fastest space probes have yet to reach 0.001% lightspeed — a speed that would still require
many thousands of years to reach our nearest exosolar star.
Although our ingenuity and hard work has enabled robotic exploration of our solar system and manned missions to
our moon, rocket propulsion is insufficient to take us to the distant stars. We are, unfortunately, currently incapable
of starflight on the scale of modern human lifespans.
Making matters more challenging, according to Einstein’s theories, point-like objects moving through space never
locally exceed the speed of light. This means that even lightspeed rendezvous missions would be limited to the
“nearby stars” — or about 8 star systems within 10 lightyears of our sun.
                                                 Our Stellar Neighborhood
                                                                                                                             1/6
Ultimately, the vast distances between stars, coupled with an inability to travel faster than light, precludes practical
starflight.
Timely return from the distant stars will demand physics breakthroughs to enable new propulsion methods that can
“break the light barrier”. This is the hard problem.
It can not be achieved by even the most refined technological applications of accrued physics.
We need breakthroughs in physics.
There is no guarantee that such breakthroughs are possible, but progress is not made by conceding defeat.
Aerospace & Astrophysics
A peculiar and elegant theory not yet part of the core curriculum for physics or aerospace engineering students is
Einstein’s general theory of relativity, or Einstein gravity for short. Einstein gravity is, essentially, classical mechanics
extended to account for the local invariance of light, and the equivalence of gravitational and inertial mass. It is our
best theoretical framework describing spacetime and gravitation.
Within the confines of space propulsion science, an unawareness and consequent lack of understanding of the
consequences of Einstein’s general relativity theory has made gravity a burden to overcome rather than a science to
embrace.
This is unfortunate because the ‘hard problem’ of interstellar travel is one fundamentally linked to our understanding
of the nature of spacetime, and according to Einstein, the force we know as gravity is a manifestation of the
curvature of spacetime.
In the spaceflight context, exotic possibilities open up with an Einsteinian view of gravitation. For example, in
Einstein’s universe, there are no restrictions on how fast two patches of space can separate from one another, and
we do observe distant galaxies accelerating away from us “faster than light”. This apparent violation is due to the
expansion of the intervening space.
A dual perspective and hybrid expertise, built upon the solid foundations of astroparticle physics and aerospace
engineering, will significantly increase one’s chances of discovering the “key” to space drives and warp drives. The
desired breakthroughs, should they exist to be found, will likely be uncovered sooner if actively searched for as
opposed to being left to chance.
Aerospace engineering students equipped and experienced with the Einsteinian perspective of the Universe may
foresee a way to engineer spacetime to circumvent the lightspeed barrier. A propulsion-driven focus will motivate
alternate lines of reasoning, provide new perspectives to old science, and aid us in unlocking mysteries at
cosmological and quantum scales that may be overlooked with a fundamental curiosity-driven approach alone.
Space Drives & Warp Drives
Space drives and warp drives are idealized forms of propulsion with the respective key capabilities of propellantless
and superluminal motion. They are examples of “field drives”, which interact with surrounding fields, such as
electromagnetic and gravitational fields, vacuum fluctuations, or spacetime itself, to achieve motion.
Essentially, space drives exploit the fundamental properties of matter and spacetime to produce motion through
space without having to carry and expel a reaction mass, whereas warp drives manipulate spacetime to achieve
superluminal motion as inferred by distant observers while remaining at rest in their local reference frame.
                                                                                                                                2/6
Space drives could enable human voyages to nearby star systems, but are lightspeed limited; thus round-trips to
distant star systems could not be achieved in a time less than twice the intervening distance divided by the speed of
light.
Warp drives, however, allow for timely starflight. Interstellar rendezvous missions may be completed in arbitrarily
short times.
The ability to circumvent the speed of light barrier grants access to the Galaxy and our Universe.
Nevertheless, exotic star travel methods, primarily warp drives and wormholes, tend to fall victim to two major
setbacks: 1) astronomical mass-energy is required to distort spacetime appreciably due to the weak coupling
between energy and spacetime curvature, and 2) exotic matter is often associated with metrics that allow for
spacetime shortcuts.
Computational Tools & Quantum Gravity
The development of a functional field drive may be achieved via the engineering of two fundamental entities: the
omnipresent quantum fields, and spacetime itself.
Quantum fields and spacetime geometry are described by two pillar theoretical frameworks: Einstein’s general
theory of relativity and the quantum theory of fields.
Offering superb models of reality in their respective realms, all attempts of amalgamation have so far resulted in a
dog’s breakfast — a defective moonscape of enigmas and absurdities. The combined physics describing quanta and
gravitation, or “Quantum Gravity”, is the ultimate, missing, theoretical framework in science.
Calculations in both theoretical frameworks are extensive and involve complex notational conventions, and the time
it takes to do these calculations by hand is prohibitive, as is the risk of inducing transcription errors.
Nonetheless, the technical challenges of breakthrough spaceflight can only be reasonably addressed through the
application of computer computational tools.
Is time travel possible? Can we build warp drives? Do wormholes exist?
To be able to answer these questions with appreciable confidence, a multi-physics framework capable of wrangling
the relevant quantum theoretic and general relativistic calculations must be developed.
Currently, no such software exists to meet the challenge.
Self Forces & Extended Body Effects
In Einstein gravity, it is well-known that sufficiently small objects tend to fall along the geodesics of whichever
spacetime they inhabit; however, spacecrafts are not point particles.
Important differences exist between the motion of extended bodies and point-like objects. The details of an extended
test body’s internal structure can cause its center-of-mass trajectory to diverge from that of an equivalent point
particle. This is true in Einsteinian as well as Newtonian gravity.
Well-known in Newtonian gravity, an orbiting satellite may take advantage of spacetime anisotropy to control its
orbital parameters without expenditure of propellant. For example, an extended object can effectively “push off” or
“grab onto” local gradients in the gravitational field. By retracting and deploying tethered masses, a satellite in orbit
can propel itself.
                                                                                                                            3/6
In Einsteinian gravity, the control space available to alter trajectories using extended body effects is greatly enlarged
because test bodies interact with the background spacetime using their full stress-energy tensors rather than just
their mass distributions, and in this relativistic context, similar effects can occur even if the spacetime is spatially
isotropic.
That is, even without a gravitational gradient to react off of, if sufficiently large internal momenta can be maintained,
a spacecraft can exploit a temporal asymmetry in the geometry to generate an effect very similar to a spatial one.
Fundamentally, spacecrafts can interact with the cosmological rest frame and gravitational fields to control their
mass and acceleration purely through internal manipulations.
There are also what are known as self interaction effects. The electromagnetic field of a charged particle influences
its own motion. Many open problems in physics involve this electromagnetic self force. Both self-force and extended
body effects are often neglected — and in many cases they can be without consequence. Only in richer contexts are
their dynamics revealed, and only in special circumstances do they become important to consider.
Further investigation into self-interaction and extended body effects may augment existing propulsion methods or
lead to entirely new forms of propulsion.
Superconductors & Metamaterials
Related to extended body effects, superconductors and spacetime may interact in bizarre ways, as may
metamaterials with vacuum fields.
The lattice ions and the Cooper pairs within superconductors must respond differently in the presence of
gravitational waves and Coriolis fields.
The electronic wavefunction of an extended quantum object, such as a Rydberg atom, is quantum mechanically
incompressible.
The lattice ions in a superconductor are not incompressible because they do not possess a globally coherent
quantum phase; however, the Cooper-pair wavefunction of a persistent current superconducting ring is.
Thus, a superconducting loop of wire will resist tidal compression during free fall and will fall more slowly in the
inhomogeneous gravitational field of the Earth compared to the free fall motion of a classical point-like object
dropped from the same height.
For superconductors in the presence of gravitational waves, while the Cooper pairs undergo non-geodesic,
accelerated motion through space, the lattice ions undergo geodesic motion as they are carried along with space.
The differences in charge and motion between the superconductors electrons and nuclei leads to a large Coulomb
force that opposes the tidal compression acting on the superconductors lattice ions, as well as mass and charge
supercurrents within the superconductor.
These effects, theoretically, make possible the enhanced reflection of gravitational waves.
Casimir Physics & Vacuum Energy
Beyond the potential propulsive effects involving superconducting materials and anisotropic spacetimes, other
propulsion possibilities exist that involve exploiting electromagnetic quantum vacuum momentum.
                                                                                                                            4/6
Although the translational symmetry of space forbids a rigid unpowered object from accelerating by exploiting
quantum vacuum, a properly engineered system could, in principle, exchange momentum with quantum vacuum
fields.
One could conceive of a theoretical, albeit minute thrust, spacecraft that uses the dynamical Casimir effect to
produce a small net acceleration by exploiting electromagnetic radiative reaction forces. The craft would require no
on-board expellant as it would instead eject photons kicked from the quantum vacuum by anharmonically vibrating
Casimir plates.
Magnetoelectric materials may constantly interact with the quantum vacuum, generating Lorentz forces that most
often sum to zero; however, using two well-established ideas — the Lorentz force and the magnetoelectric effect —
it might be possible to induce an asymmetry in these otherwise balanced forces.
Progress
The last three decades have seen incredible progress, and numerous developments and advances.
The physics of traversable wormholes and superluminal warp drives entered and permeated scientific literature.
The discovery of dark energy took everyone completely by surprise in 1998.
Advances in supercomputing power and mathematics enabled researchers to numerically solve the Einstein
equations, highlighting the importance of the differences between simulations based on the full Einstein equations
and those making simplifying assumptions.
In the ten years that followed, multi-decade-long scientific collaborations confirmed two theoretical predictions of
momentous importance: 1) the Higgs field — responsible for giving certain particles their mass, and 2) gravitational
waves — propagating oscillations in the fabric of spacetime itself.
DARPA launched initiatives into breakthrough technologies based on Casimir physics and vacuum energy.
Enhanced Casimir effects were predicted to occur in metamaterials and Bose-Einstein condensates, and thin
superconducting films were predicted to reflect gravitational waves.
Quantum metamaterials were proposed. This programmable media is comprised of controllable quantum coherent
unit elements that can maintain global coherence and may enable unprecedented gravitational wave detection
capability, the ability to transduce gravitational into electromagnetic energy, and most profound, the ability to
generate gravitational radiation at terrestrial scales.
Much unresolved physics still remains regarding the connections between electromagnetism and gravitation. A
greater understanding of how matter couples to spacetime, and the coupling between electromagnetic and
gravitational fields, may lead to new methods for achieving propulsive effects. Methods for achieving enhanced
coupling or exotic matter would each constitute major breakthroughs for star travel science.
Call To Arms
Breakthroughs in propulsion physics are among the most impactful, valuable, and difficult challenges facing our
generation, and those to come. Achieving starflight means humanity effectively becomes immortal. The current
generations can spearhead propellantless and superluminal propulsion if we are bold enough to try.
Interstellar exploration is the ultimate adventure and challenge, and a quest of profound import for the long term
trajectory of humanity. I believe no pursuit is of greater importance, and its consequences, intended and unforeseen,
will be among the most valuable ever derived, making possible the next wave of transformative technologies that will
                                                                                                                        5/6
further humanity in ways we have only begun to imagine.
The universe is full of mysteries yet to be uncovered. Wormholes and time warps may live among them. Those with
the courage and determination to stay the course in pursuit of the cosmos’ most valuable secrets hold a chance to
return victorious with its grander treasures.
What we stand to create is greater than our world, and our time. Interstellar propulsion and spacetime engineering
will not only transform terrestrial human culture, but set the stage for the future of humanity — and secure it.
“Safe bets hold no magic to quicken the heart. Real breakthroughs — the kind that topple paradigms, redefine
what’s possible, and impact the long term trajectory of humanity — demand bold imaginative leaps, unwavering
passion, and unreasonable perseverance.” -Jason A. Sokaris
                                                                                                                     6/6