Title: Anti Fiction 63424
Date:  2025-06-24
Source: Anti_Fiction_63424.pdf
Anti-Fiction
                 ⟨Jason Agamemnon Sokaris | .F.A.E.R.W.A.L.D⟩
Ada Lovelace
 1. “That brain of mine is something more than merely mortal; as time will show.”
 2. “In all probability my reign (if ever I have one) over mankind will be chiefly after my death.”
 3. “I wish to bequeath to the generations a calculus of the nervous system.”
 4. “I can throw rays from every quarter of the universe into one vast focus.”
 5. “We may confidently trust that algebraical analysis will eventually lead to truths of which we can form no
    conception.”
 6. “Owing to some peculiarity in my nervous system, I have perception of some things, which no one else has;
    or at least very few, if any.”
Isaac Asimov — Prelude to Foundation
 1. “The Galactic Empire is dying.” — Chetter Hummin
 2. “My field of specialization is the mathematical analysis of social structure.” — Hari Seldon
 3. “Psychohistory is what I call it. In theory, one could.” — Hari Seldon
Isaac Asimov — The End of Eternity
 1. “A moving finger, having once written, could never be lured back to unwrite.”
 2. “With that disappearance, he knew, even as Noÿs moved slowly into his arms, came the end, the final end of
    Eternity — and the beginning of Infinity.”
 3. “Cub Brinsley Sheridan Cooper is Vikkor Mallansohn!” — Laban Twissell
 4. “Noÿs said, “This is Earth. Not the eternal and only home of mankind, but only a starting point of an
    infinite adventure. All you need do is make the decision. It is yours to make. You and I and the contents
    of this cave will be protected by a physiotime field against the Change. Cooper will disappear along with
    his advertisement; Eternity will go and the Reality of my Century, but we will remain to have children and
    grandchildren, and mankind will remain to reach the stars.” ”
Isaac Asimov — Forward the Foundation
 1. “Say good-bye, Dr Venabili. All I have to do now is turn the device to full power and you will be history.”
    — Tamwile Elar
 2. “You loved me and your love made me — human.” — Dors Venabili
David Deutsch
 1. “Knowledge can aim itself at a target, travel vast distances having scarcely any effect, and then utterly
    transform the destination.” — The Beginning of Infinity, p. 275
 2. “The structure of the multiverse is determined by information flow.” — The Structure of the Multiverse
    (2012)
 3. “The beginning of infinity is the possibility of unlimited progress, given the right knowledge.” — The Begin-
    ning of Infinity, Preface
 4. “Knowledge-creation depends on error-correction.” — The Beginning of Infinity, p. 271
                                                                ⟨Jason Agamemnon Sokaris | .F.A.E.R.W.A.L.D⟩