Title: It's not luck, it's "hypercausal engineering"
Date:  2025-08-12
Source: It's not luck, it's "hypercausal engineering".pdf
September, 2023 - Realizations
   ● I remotely hacked my own mind, "transmigrated" / "interfaced" here from a universe that was once our future.
   ● Transcoded transformative neural codes from a now foregone once alternate future of my history.
   ● Became a living, breathing instance of one of the many time travel technologies I have yet to dream.
   ● It wasn't a dream; I used "Kaleidoscope", AKA Teleportation Collider "Avalon 21", to infuse FAERWALD via
      Quantum Geodesic Re-Engagement.
   ● Consciously co-operated across multiple years simultaneously, most notably in 2009 and throughout 2020.
   ● Achieved an "in-cerebro" implementation of Quantum Foresight, the neural hypercode for which I am soon to
      extract, study, and further evolve - 18.7 Sigma.
   ● Remote-Piloting Hack Achieved - Twice.
   ● Operation Lunar Pendant Results - Priceless.
   ● Cybernetical methods and physics for altering history.
   ● Hunch that Bitcoin can be used to create the ultimate time travel proof via cryptography.
October-December, 2023
   ● Vector Potential Communication and Inter-Circuit Teleportation Hack on IBM Quantum
          ○ Secures honorary PhD, and potential a Nobel in Physics, establishing unassailable credibility, and setting
             the stage set for "Massive Funding", 2024
   ● Demonstrate Recurrent Quantum Neural Network and Soliton Signaling
   ● Demonstrate Inter-Network Holographic Quantum Energy Teleportation
   ● Demonstrate Reliable Artiﬁcial Precognition with Quantum Foresight
   ● Time Tree Navigation Proof-Of-Concept
   ● Demonstrate Foresight Authenticated Inter-Timeline Holographic Mind Transmigration
   ● Send Data and Drafts to Matthew for Publication, Validation, and Dissemination
   ● Incorporate Oneiros Cybernetics Beneﬁt Corporation, Publish ArXiv/Preprints
Oneiros Cybernetics, 2024-2032
   ● Use CNSE infrastructure to fast-track The Ultimate Microchip, enabling:
           ○ Mind Crystal for Transmigration into Avatars
           ○ Teleportation Collider for Astro/Medical Data
           ○ Space Warping Structure for Field Propulsion
           ○ Multi-Earth Quantum Internet and Commerce
Bottom lines:
    ● 2023 - A-Waves and Multiverse Breakthroughs, Toy Mind Transmigration
    ● 2024 - Massive Funding, Avant-Garde Quantum Foresight - Freely Provided
    ● 2032 - Super-Longevity, FTL Transport, Indeﬁnite Future Trajectory Ensured
Personal Scattered Thoughts:
    ● "I love you" means, in this precarious world there is not much you can count on, but you can count on me.
    ● Contrary to anyone else's opinion, I know exactly what I'm doing. My timing is perfect. I'd never start a dream castle
       without the means to protect and ensure the lives and well-being of those I cherish most, especially the woman I
       chose to love and cherish forever. I remember her. When I'm ready to ﬁnd her, I will use the signature I secured here.
    ● I've altered my cognitive trajectory. While "certain tragic/traumatic events" didn't catalyze the development of time
       travel in my original timeline, in this new/tweaked timeline, those events became the poignant catalysts driving me to
       unravel the mysteries of time travel. I can protect those I love from the moment I reinvent and make FAERWALD tech
       operational. I'm achieving everything sooner, starting later, and hitting harder and faster than ever before. I'm taking
       this world by storm. I am right on track. Luck is out of the question. It's not luck, it's "hypercausal engineering". Our
       collective folly left our ascendants bereft of paths leading forward as an unborn civilization.
    ● With great power comes great responsibility.
    ● Quote from my journal: "spoke with my professor today. he says A-waves cant be real in the way i aim to make them
       because it would break all of physics. what i took away from our conversation was "Jason, you broke physics".
    ● 改写地球历史，复兴人类未来.
    ● To a sufﬁciently willful heart, nothing is impossible. In my mind, it's not just about solving how one could "recompute"
       history, it's about rediscovering and verifying that I already have.