Title: Loop Spacetime Notes
Date:  2025-06-03
Source: Loop_Spacetime_Notes.pdf
Loop–Spacetime Notes
                      ⟨Jason Agamemnon Sokaris | .F.A.E.R.W.A.L.D⟩
                                              June 3, 2025
1    Main Curiosity
Verbatim capture
     I want to relate & be able to translate between “Attractors” and “Spacetimes.”
     Q: What would I need to represent a loop?
        1. An initial vector.
        2. A manifold.
        3. The knowledge that it is closed.
     Regarding my thoughts on (1) and (2): it is like a boomerang geodesic. The attractor or loop
     closes; it re-encounters itself with parameters (direction, speed, phase, . . . ) close enough
     to lie inside the attractor’s phase–space neighbourhood. Closure is probabilistic: if the
     likelihood exceeds a threshold we count the encounter as a valid self-collision, making the
     loop dynamically stable.
Precise restatement
Let γ(t) be a trajectory on a manifold M with initial tangent v0 ∈ Tγ(0) M. Define the closure probability
                                                                                 
                           Pclose (γ) = Pr ∥γ(t) − γ(0)∥ < ε ∧ ∥γ̇(t) − v0 ∥ < δ
for some tolerances (ε, δ). When Pclose > τ (a chosen threshold) the path is declared a boomerang
geodesic. Translating between attractor dynamics, geometric loops, and engineered circuits then amounts
to preserving an invariant—e.g. the holonomy class—under changes of representation.
Mapping table
              Circuits                        Spacetimes                        Attractors
    Superconducting qubit ring       Gödel metric with closed time- Limit cycle born of a Hopf bi-
    implementing a recurrent         like curves                     furcation
    gate cycle
    Photonic feedback reservoir      Traversable   Morris–Thorne Lorenz or Rössler strange at-
    computer                         wormhole throat             tractor
    Reversible    Toffoli-network    Topological geon (quotient of a Basin of attraction around a
    lattice                          black-hole interior)            chaotic saddle
    Adiabatic quantum-annealer       Kerr horizon generating      a   Stable manifold in gradient-
    schedule loop                    causal closed orbit              descent dynamics
   Each row exhibits one mathematical object viewed three ways; the translation hinges on a conserved
tensor (holonomy, Morse index, or topological charge) common to all descriptions.
                                                    1
2     Why Is Spacetime Lorentzian?
Verbatim capture
      HD-chaos 9.1
      Riemannian dynamics → manifold, but we’re Lorentzian. This is why we’re quantum:
      You can’t get Riemannian from vector vs. dynamics. We get Lorentzian because quantum
      dynamics / particle trajectories.
      X — self-interference. I read/think FTL to mark intelligence ⇒ more stability.
      Did the beginning of my sentence interrupt the middle of yours? (lol)
      If you answer a question before you ask it (e.g. FTL) you are left with only an answer,
      without knowing the question it came from, because you thought too fast; you then only
      have your history to go on, and the answer element is clipped off.
Structured outline
    1. Constraint from quantum self-interference. Consistent path integrals require a metric of
       signature (− + + + . . . ) so that interference phases exp(iS/ℏ) remain oscillatory rather than
       exponentially blowing up; this selects a Lorentzian rather than a Riemannian manifold for classical
       limits.
    2. High-dimensional chaos (HD-chaos 9.1). Chaotic mixing in phase space demands a causal
       structure to delimit signal propagation. The Lorentz group supplies the only non-compact sym-
       metry compatible with both chaos and locality.
    3. Information-theoretic argument. In a universe permitting faster-than-light (FTL) signalling
       you could receive an answer before formulating the question, truncating causal chains (“clipped–history
       paradox”). Lorentzian causality forbids such trajectories, protecting the definability of state his-
       tories.
Pseudocode sketch (“clipped history” test)
// clipped_history(trajectory, memory)
// Detect whether causal order is violated.
function clipped_history(t, m):
    if arrival_time(answer) < departure_time(question):
        flag_violation()
        truncate(trajectory)
    update(memory, trajectory)
   The routine illustrates how FTL loops would force manual truncation of state logs, undermining
predictive stability—another heuristic in favour of a Lorentzian causal order.
                                                    2