Title: Physics of Exotic Propulsion   Society for UAP Studies
Date:  2025-08-12
Source: Physics of Exotic Propulsion _ Society for UAP Studies.pdf
Physics of Exotic Propulsion | Society for UAP
Studies
societyforuapstudies.org/thephysicsofexoticpropulsion
Course Description
​
This 8 week course will ask a simple question: If ET visitations are possible, then how
would aliens get here? This course will briefly cover the history of human air and space
travel first, with the historical claims that each were impossible. Then, after explaining
Newtonian-physics-based propulsion, it will move on to describing the origins of Einstein’s
Theory of Special Relativity (1905), explaining why the speed of light must be a constant
and why that causes time to dilate (Twin Paradox) and length to contract, helping
interstellar travelers along.
Students will also learn how we know relativity to be correct. The formulas for relativistic
mass and energy will be explained from a qualitative perspective for the non-
mathematically-oriented students. Problematic side effects like mass increase and starlight
Doppler blue-shifting will be covered, with suggested solutions of new fuel sources and
propellants like dark matter or energy, and new types of shielding against radiation, for
relativistic spaceflight (still sub-light). At the course midpoint, case studies of UAP exhibiting
high speeds / accelerations will be reviewed.
The course will then transition into General Relativity for handling gravity and acceleration,
with a focus upon how this broader theory may allow for faster-than-light navigation of the
cosmos, through the warping of the space-time fabric (gravitational waves and inflation will
be discussed as examples) and Einstein-Rosen bridges, or wormholes. Lastly, the course
ends with a discussion of non-relativistic solutions to observed UAP behavior using the
classical mechanics of Newton and Galileo, emphasizing how Einstein is the icing on the
cake.
Watch Video: https://youtu.be/SYYW1iAAQGc
No matter what your time zone, or your schedule, we encourage you to enroll! For the
benefit of any student who can't attend live, the Society will record the sessions and make
them available to students (once video processing is complete - generally, two to three
days).
Weekly Topics
​
Week 1: A Brief History of Human Air and Space Travel
Week 2: Intro to Einstein's Special Relativity and Time Dilation
Week 3: Relativistic Energy, and Doppler Shift
Week 4: Fuels and Shielding for Relativistic Travel
Week 5: UAP Case Studies of High Velocities or Accelerations
Week 6: Intro to General Relativity and Space-Time Warping
Week 7: Tachyons, Warp Drives, and Wormholes
Week 8: A Lack of Sonic Booms: Clever Engineering?
Matthew Szydagis is Associate Professor of Physics at the State University of New York
(Albany) and research scientist at UAPx, one of only a handful of serious scientific groups
studying UAP with well-calibrated instruments. Matt is an experimental physicist who works
on Dark Matter research in laboratories deep underground. He received his Ph.D. from the
University of Chicago,and divides his time between family, Dark Matter, UAP, and teaching
young & impressionable students the wonders of physics.
Register