Title: prof transcript
Date:  2025-08-12
Source: prof_transcript.pdf
I am developing vector potential communication and precognitive Al, technology capable of foreseeing the unforeseeable and
preventing the unacceptable events that transcend traditional foresight.
Transcript with Professor Matthew Szydagis :)
He also wants to, with your permission, throw the entire Department's resources into building this ASAP. That's how important your
discovery is, Jason. This is the real deal. The A-waves can pass through things. It can’t be shielded! It won't even be shielded by a
superconductor because the Meisner effect only kills B, not A. So this is the best form of communication potentially in existence. He
wants to do it immediately, and then we'll help you publish it. Your name's ﬁrst. We're not stealing any credit or glory from you, but
remember how I told you no one’s going to let you publish anything unless you're a professor? We can put our names on it, and then
it'll get published, but your name's ﬁrst. We're not trying to screw you out of anything. Don't focus on being ﬁrst, focus on being best.
Yes, good job! We're talking Nobel Prize-worthy here. If you need more money, he'll give you more money. He wants to put the full
Department behind this. Look, we have to be skeptical of extraterrestrial stuff, but what if there are communications that we're getting
right now? What if the universe is buzzing with A-waves because that's how advanced civilizations communicate? Kevin thinks this is
Destiny, and he thinks that you've explained why, he agrees entirely, why SETI hasn't seen anything. The universe is probably buzzing
with A-waves, and this is how aliens communicate. This is like Adaptive Optics. The Navy and the airforce, they already know about
this. You could read this in a Faraday cage even! You could read it inside of a superconductor! It's unblockable! And like I said, he will
give you money and time. He will take his wrenches and hammers, and he will build this with you. He thinks this is more important.
I'm trying to poke more holes in it. No, you don’t have to convince me anymore. He says if you get this to work, we'll get you a PhD for
free, dude, an honorary PhD. This is the future. You have really, really hit something so massive here. It's bigger than you or me. Like,
this is crazy! If you build it and it works, Jason, you are going to go places in life. It's more important than graduate school. It's your
ticket to fame, fortune, stardom. No exaggeration, Jason. If you succeed in making a vector potential antenna, you will have suddenly
the money to do everything else you want to do: hyper-resolution brain imaging, hyper-computation, every other idea you have. You
will suddenly have cash money. Listen to me, ali the money for your dreams is all going to rain down on you if you can build a vector
potential antenna. That'll prove that you're the real deal, you're a real inventor, without a PhD even, you'll become famous overnight if
you can just ﬁnish this Vector potential antenna. but you *have to* focus. you cannot let your long-term dreams interfere with this one.
don't get ahead of yourself, don't try to solve warp drive and hypercomputation all those things. and your propulsion. propellantless
propulsion, you'll have money for that. As long as you do the vector potential antenna ﬁrst all that other stuff is going to come within a
few years believe me that if this is a real thing you're going to be showered with more money than you know what to do with if you can
build a vector potential antenna because it'll be so important. People will look at you and be like, “This Jason Sokaris guy needs funds
ASAP." 'Cause people will look at you and be like, "This guy is the next Edison or Tesla.” Suddenly, you get a phone call from Jeff Bezos
or Elon Musk will be like, “Jason, i wanna give you... if I give you $10 million dollars, tell me what you can do with that.” that's what's
going to happen. believe me, Jason, that you can't, though. You can't do that. First, ﬁrst do vector potential antenna, then worry about
all your other great ideas: room-temperature superconductor, all those things. Don't let those distract you from ﬁrst building a vector
potential antenna. All the other stuff, do it later. If your vector potential antenna is right, I agree with you, that you'll be able to create
sub-millimeter resolution of the human brain. First, prove it works, and then you can do your new MRI idea. I love it. You could
revolutionize our understanding of the human brain. MRI is a joke with this lit-up screen. It's all bullshit because the resolution is so
poor that we can't tell when an individual neuron is ﬁring. But you can. Vector potential is real. I love your interference idea. Brilliant!
You can create a remote magnetic ﬁeld at a point. You will be able to create monopoles, which we didn’t think were possible. You'll be
able to create monopoles through the interference of A-waves. We'll be able to create artiﬁcial monopoles. I'm deeply impressed. You
could have walked into MIT, Harvard, any place in the world, and gotten your PhD right now. But you-—you deserve if you discover the
vector potential antenna. You don't just deserve a PhD. You'tt deserve a Nobel Prize. You should get the Nobel Prize for this discovery,
vector potential antenna. You need to make it work, though. You can’t let anything stop you. No distractions, no hyper-computer. Don't
let any of that distract you yet. Follow your dreams serially instead of in parallel right now. Just focus on vector potential antenna, and
we'll support you with the resources that you need. I’ve already acknowledged that you were not only right about A-waves all these
eight years that you've been coming to me, you were right all along about FTL and wormholes. Your ideas are good and often correct.
You don't have any friends. I really don't. I can see why because you're smarter than everybody, Jason. Now I understand why you got
poor grades. Not because you don't understand this, but because you are three steps ahead of everybody. you want to cut to the
chase. You want to cut right to the warp drives and stuff. But do you understand what I'm trying to tell you today? You should be more
excited. This is a vindication of everything you've been coming to me about all these years. You've been right all along, All your Crazy
ideas. There's a difference between information and energy transfer. That's right. There's no energy. There’s no energy in the A-waves.
That's what makes them so awesome. No energy is being transferred. But look, all these things. I think, you may have scored, yes, on
more than half of your crazy ideas might turn out to be right, Jason. So ﬁrst do vector potential, and then do everything else. I used to
think that more than half of your ideas were crazy, but now I'm convinced that you're just a visionary. So look, you've come to the right
place. Totally convinced. I'd like you to just full speed ahead. The memories keep coming back. You are too trusting. I keep realizing
just how messed up things were. You can't do this alone. I do believe in you, but you still need help. It's been what, a year since you've
discovered this? A year and a half. It would be great if you could get a girlfriend who appreciates you for who you are. In the age of the
internet, it's easier than ever to ﬁnd another human being who can love you for who you are and not abuse you. Just stay single for a
while then, don't look even. Just relax and focus on science. You can take that anger and fear and turn it into something useful. Build
this A-wave setup. Don't look for anyone. Stay single. Don't be distracted by relationships right now and just focus on doing this.